EN


ABOUT ME

Roots Yoga was born in the summer of 2018.
My name is Samantha, and I'm familiar with yoga since I was a little child. My practice became regular about 5 years ago, when I started as a self-taught. 
In 2015 I moved to Amsterdam, and there yoga gradually became a great passion, thanks to the encounter of some teachers and the possibility to practice in many yoga studios. 
I am a certified teacher of Hatha Yoga, Ashtanga Vinyasa Yoga and Yoga Nidra. I recently completed a course about Psychoacoustics and Sound Therapy, in order to integrate my yoga classes with elements of relaxation and introspection.
Together with yoga, my other great passion is travelling. 
Infact, I had the occasion to complete my yoga studies in India and Indonesia, lands where I was able to fully experience the true roots of yoga.
I love practicing in the nature, place where we can always reconnect with ourselves and recharge with pure energy.
My lessons are flexible, I always try to adapt to everyone's needs, combining asanas (postures) with meditation and pranayama.
When practicing for myself, I prefer a kind of yoga that is dynamic and energizing, structured in sequences of fluid movements, almost like a dance.
Relaxation is also very important in my teachings, especially through Yoga Nidra, a very powerful practice, able to awaken our hidden potential.


THE PRACTICES

ASHTANGA VINYASA YOGA

Ashtanga yoga is a form of dynamic yoga. 
The lessons are composed of a creative sequence of asanas (postures), in wich, each position is connected to the other by transitional movements (vinyasa) and coordinates with the breath. 
This type of practice consists of a first part of standing postures, designed to create fluid movements, almost like in a dance. In the second part the postures are executed on the ground, combining elements of stretching and relaxation.

Ashtanga yoga will make you stronger, more agile and balanced. You will feel energized and focused on the present moment.

HATHA YOGA

Hatha yoga is a form of static yoga. The name "Hatha" represents the two elements sun ("Ha") and moon ("Tha") to indicate the harmonic union of the opposites. Here the asanas function at a deeper level, as they are kept for longer times.

MEDITATION

Usually a short meditation opens or closes each lesson. I always try to variate, mixing different kind of meditations. Among the most used are the meditations related to breathing, focusing on the parts of the body and listening to inner silence.


PRANAYAMA

Pranayama is a practice related to the control of the breath and therefore of the vital energy (prana). The pranayama exercises mainly aim to purify the energy channels, offering a sense of deep mental and spiritual serenity, which will reverberate throughout all our system.

YOGA NIDRA

Yoga Nidra, often called "the yogic sleep", is a relaxation practice. The practitioner, comfortably lying in shavasana, simply need to follow the voice of the guide and let go, in order to reach a deep state of relaxation. The relaxation pass through few stages of focusing on the body parts, breathing and visualizations. Among the beneficial effects there is an immediate feeling of peace and serenity, a greater capacity of concentration and creativity. A regular practice can be a great help in removing emotional blockages and in overcoming insomnia.